# Novel Adduct Generation Pipeline

Genotoxins can form DNA adducts by covalently binding to cellular DNA, leading to structural and functional changes that disrupt cellular processes. These disruptions can occur through genetic mechanisms (e.g., mutations) or non-genetic mechanisms (e.g., epigenetic modifications). The identification, quantification, and characterization of DNA adducts are critical for understanding their biological impact and can accelerate efforts to predict carcinogenicity and elucidate their modes of action.

This pipeline leverages computational strategies, including Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based modeling, to advance the study of DNA adducts. These approaches enable predictive modeling for adduct formation via metabolic activation and the identification of novel adducts, providing valuable insights into their biological significance and role in genotoxicity.

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/AnshulVerma01/Novel-adducts-generation.git
```
2. Create a conda environment:
```bash
conda env create -f adductGen.yml
conda activate adductGen
```

## Usage
The primary script to run the pipeline is provided src/mutAIverse.py. Execute it directly by changing the respective file paths.
```python
python mutAIverse.py
```

- In the result/csv/txt/tanimoto/adducts directory, we have provided experimentally validated and putative adducts for each nucleotide. To generate the Tanimoto similarity plot, execute the following command:
```python
python tanimoto.py
```
This will generate a Tanimoto similarity plot based on the provided adduct data.


## nohup.out File
The nohup.out file contains the output logs generated by the pipeline process. It captures all the standard output and warning messages from the pipeline execution, providing a detailed record of the process, including:

- Status updates of each step in the pipeline.
- Any warnings or errors encountered during execution.
- Final results or summaries produced by the pipeline.

This file serves as a reference for understanding the pipeline's execution and debugging any issues. If you wish to re-run the pipeline, you can follow the steps outlined in the Usage section of this repository.
